welcome to the fresh preserving kitchen
I'm Jessica and I'm here to show you our
new appliance for 2015 it's our vault
fresh tech electric water bath canner
and multicooker
what I'd like to start with is just
showing you how simply this can actually
pack up and how you'll also get it when
you get it out of the box so first of
all we have our lid dishwasher safe it's
got a great silicone handle obviously
you need a power cord got our user
manual the recipe book that's going to
be like an inspiration and give you all
kinds ideas of different things that you
can do with this particular appliance
and one of the greatest things that I
love about this appliance it's for all
your high acid foods so not only are you
going to get what comes in this recipe
booklet but every single high acid food
recipe that we have in our Bowl blue
book you can absolutely preserve in this
ball fresh type of electric water bath
canner and multi cooker so pretty neat
we have a steaming rack that comes with
it so if you want to steam your
vegetables it gives you a great
opportunity to also use this appliance
for that process
the base unit sets right inside which is
great it's not dishwasher safe so only
spot clean this with a nice damp towel
and then you've got your canning rack
inside so if you choose to use this for
canning obviously we're going to in
click that just want to speak to a
couple of the features inside of the pot
so here on the inside no know if you'll
be able to see that or not maybe not but
you have three different lines a minimum
fill because every time that you have
this plugged in and turned on you do
want to make sure you have liquid inside
we have a steam fill line which is great
for when you're seaming you know exactly
how much water to put in there then you
may be able to see this ring around here
that actually is what the steaming rack
sets on so that makes that very simple
and when you're canning we actually have
a max goal line I don't know about you
but if you've ever been preserving food
and all of a sudden your lip starts to
bounce around it's probably because you
got a little bit too much water going on
in there and it's boiling and
now does happen to me but this is a
great way to make sure you have just the
right amount of water when you're
preserving something else on the boat
maybe you noticed by now you have a
spigot on the side how awesome is that I
know for me when I get done preserving
I've got this 21 quart pot of hot water
I'm trying to pick it up and take it
over to the sink not always the safest
thing for me but now with this spigot I
can actually have this right next to my
sink when I'm done preserving I just
open this up all my hot water goes into
my sink I don't have to worry about it
another great thing about this spigot
you know we did mention it's a multi
cookers you can have hot chocolate cider
I can my Wasel in here in the holiday
time and my friends come over I can
simply have this out they can fill their
own mugs
really easy now also you could chilies
the student all kinds of really fun
things in here
and when you're doing those food
products there is a nice little food
grade safe plug before you can see that
well that goes right in secures itself
and that's going to prevent any of those
food particles from getting into your
spigot so let me just show you how
easily this is cymbals you're going to
sit this here on the base pretty easy
there's a dial here in the front so when
you plug it in a light will turn on if
you're using it for cooking we have low
medium high just like you would on your
stovetop but this green section over
here is where you'd like to put it for
canning you want to make sure you get
that full rolling boil just like if you
were to do this on your stovetop once
you achieve that full rolling boil is
when you would start your processing
time you know what I just said stovetop
you don't need a stovetop to use the
electric water bath canner you can use
this over by your sink wherever you want
to use it it's going to be 20% more
efficient than using your stove top but
don't worry because it also allows you
to use your stove help for other things
for cooking dinner maybe have multiple
batches of things going on if you had a
great time at the farmers market you
want to make some pickles and some salsa
and do a variety of things at different
processing times great opportunity to do
that now so many things you can do with
this appliance I think it's fantastic
and does it get any better than being
able to use your ball Bluebook and
having the Flex
do any of these recipes ins implies I
don't think so it's pretty great so you
can find it on fresh preserving store
calm and to learn more go to fresh
preserving calm